# Advanced-Anti-Theft-Box
The anti-theft donation box is a donation box that contains double-lock security systems and ample space of money storage to ensure the user can ensure the safety of donation box. The anti-theft donation box contains of two modes to enhance the capability and versatility of the prototype. The first mode (Mode A) is activated when the user is around, and the keypad lock system is activated to enable user to retrieve money from the safe box, while the theft detection system is turned off to prevent the alarm from triggering, since donation by people normally occur in the morning till late evening. The second mode (Mode B) is activated when the user is not around, and the keypad lock system is deactivated, so that the solenoid lock cannot be opened if the thief breaks through the first padlock through brute force, while the theft detection system is activated to detect any sudden change of weight acts on the pressure sensor to trigger the ringing of alarm.

When the thief attempts to steal the money, it has to unlock the physical lock that is used to protect the electronics compartment which is located above the safe box. Next, the thief has to switch to Mode A first, then key in the correct password to open the solenoid lock that is used to protect the safe box that contains all the money. If the thief attempts to steal the money by breaking the external structure of the box, the pressure sensor will detect the change of weight and triggers the alarm. If the thief attempts to steal the money by breaking the electronics circuit first, the solenoid lock will always remain locked since it is set to be always LOCKED unless correct password is key-in to open the solenoid lock.
            
The electrical circuits consist of two main systems, which one system is the keypad system that gets input from keypad to perform actions such as activating/deactivating solenoid lock and switching operating modes of prototype. The second system is the theft detection system that relies on input of pressure sensor to determine the output of buzzer. A sudden change of weight will cause the buzzer to ring since it will be a suspected theft action. This shows pressure sensor is a more suitable choice of sensor compared to IR sensor due to limitation of IR sensor to detect small objects such as strings that are often used by thieves to steal the money from the donation slot. Next, an additional tactile push button is designed in the system to ensure the buzzer will not turn off if the thief intends to stop the buzzer from ringing by replacing the weight of money with something else. Thus, the buzzer can only be turned off when the push button is pushed by the user after the theft occurs.  In both systems, LCD display is a good medium to display the state of the working prototype. For example, LCD display will show the concurrent password or command that is entering by the user so that the input entered is correct. Lastly, the electrical circuit is placed and locked inside the compartment of the box, so that it is difficult to get accessed by random people from outside of the box. With these features, they increase the reliability of the security measures provided to the user.

| Mode | Keypad Lock System | Theft Detection System | Results |
|------|--------------------|------------------------|---------|
|A|Activated|Deactivated|User can retrieve money from donation box through opening of solenoid lock. Donations by donors will not cause the triggering of alarm.|
|B|Deactivated|Activated|Thief cannot retrieve money from donation box due to lock of solenoid lock. Change of weight act on pressure sensor is detected and will cause triggering of alarm.|
